




might give you some temporal correlations on which you can make some guesses downstream. So the order would then, then be a bit different. But then I'm, I'm speculating a little bit because I'll have to see things in action. But that's-- intuitively, that's how, how I would think about it. Um, 'cause the, the LSTM itself doesn't do the classification, right? Mm-hmm. The classification is done by what? What's the la-- that's-- what's the last stage? The last stage is, um, [lip smack] it's just a random forest as well, like, at the end, the classification layer. Yeah, yeah. Okay. So, to me, it's like... So to me, typically, like, the way I look at this stuff is like, okay, I try to somehow encode a complex input so that I can process it in kind of a scalable way. Then I try to extract any correlations between, you know, different things that hap- happen across time, for instance. And then maybe the final layer is probably something like a fully connected layer, which allows me to just, like, make the final decision. Mm-hmm. Could be random forest, but you want to have a deep architecture, that's typically the workflow. Okay. Okay. Keep, keep all these things in mind. Go down a little bit. I'm not... And then I'm not a big fan of softmax, but that's- Okay. -just me. Maybe it's okay. Uh, I think I read recently a paper, then there was-- I think there was some, some people that-- some-- the, the initial recommender system at YouTube was kind of an early version of like a... Yeah, it's kind of precursor to kind of LLMs, and people were saying like: "Well, yeah, that's good, but you see it using softmax, which is-- doesn't have this kind of strong discrimina- discriminative capability." Uh, I don't know. Maybe it's just, you know, maybe I was just influenced by a very strong opinion. Okay. [chuckles] Okay, good. Let's, let's go... And then, so here, so I mean, you here, you have a mixed loss. I mean, I kind of understand why, because you want to combine things- Mm. -but then you have a hyperparameter, and then you'll have to do a lot of ablation studies to understand what's the, you know- Yeah ... what is the, the right value. So that's also going-- it's another, it's another button. [chuckles] Yeah. Yeah. It's just like more work for you. So if you saw that contrastive learning doesn't help you, just forget about it. Uh, just use cross entropy, which is classic for classification problems. Yeah, so I, I removed, I removed contrastive learning after this version. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Okay, okay, then... But then it's irrelevant. Yep. And after this- Yeah ... I just, uh, uh, I ran the new ensemble. I mean, I, I haven't even run the ensemble. I'm just retraining the PHG. Yeah, don't, don't bother, I would say. Okay. I mean, to me, it's like what you're trying to do is like, hey, I kind of hit a bottleneck. Mm-hmm. And now I'm trying to see whether, you know, if I put a different type of fuel in the tank, it's gonna work better, but the engine is still the same. [chuckles] Okay. Uh, right. So to me, that would be, like, the key things. Understand, understand that graph neural architecture, what it does, understand feature importance, and then reconsider the final layer. Yeah. Did I miss anything? Did I say anything else? I think the, just the order of GNN and LSTM- Yeah ... that. Yeah, that's also, like, just to need to figure out, like, what-- uh, because I don't understand what your graph neural net's doing, it's hard, hard for me to understand, like, what's the correct sequence? So- Okay. So that's gonna be for you to discover. I don't know. Alek, is there anything else you would add or, like, you disagree with? [clears throat] Sorry. [chuckles] Uh, no, I don't disagree with anything. Uh- Okay. There are some things that I do want to see, but I really don't wanna take us... Uh, I don't wanna add a lot more to do. But I think one important thing to do is look at graphs, execution graphs from different types of attacks and see how they actually differ, and if they actually differ. So how would you compare them? Just like visually or? Yeah, I mean, even visually, if you take, mm, exam-- like one example from two different attacks, which are being classified the same- Okay ... and look at whether or not their graphs are different. Do that for all the attacks, like even one example each, and that's it. I- If the graphs are different, then encoding the graph itself and running the classification on that can be enough to actually do the classification or to obtain good performance. Yeah. But if the graphs are the same and the features are the same, no matter what architecture you take, it won't do anything. Exactly. Mm-hmm.... I, uh, okay. Okay, I, okay. You-- are you talking about these execution graphs or, um, something else? Yeah. I mean- But I don't-- I mean, honestly, I don't know what that is. Like, there's just like- Oh, yeah, I- It's all numbers, then it's different colors, so. I, I, I have a legend. Let me, uh, should probably paste that. [chuckles] I-- It's like a part of a big picture. I had all the different ty- types of attacks, um, visualized there. So this is-- I don't know why it's so dark, but, um, this is the legend for this. So what attack is this? This one, I think, I think I pasted Spectre V4. Yeah. Yep, this is Spectre V4. Um, let me quickly share my screen to show you. Yeah. So let me stop sharing. Can you see? Okay. Can you see? Yep. Um, okay. So you shared this a while ago, um- Mm-hmm. November. So, uh, if you look at this one, for example, I'm guessing it's an instance of MDS. Yeah. Mm-hmm. So, uh, here, if you want to take the computation graph itself, it's just this one. I mean, it can maybe have some branches and so on, but this is a computation graph- Yep ... for example. And, uh, encoding this, you don't really need, um, the register names or low-level details, like what, what specific, uh, operation it's performing. What-- You do need the operation itself, but not the- Mm-hmm ... arguments. So it could be sub, um, SCRB, whatever that is, and so on. So if you have that sequence, if that sequence is not the same for different attacks, that would be enough to do the classification. So- In- Yeah, yeah, go on. In one of the later graphs that you shared, uh, here, you have some empty-- some not conne- non-connected nodes- Mm-hmm ... which, uh, shouldn't happen when you have an execution graph. Because no matter where you are, it should at least get there from somewhere else- Yeah ... except the first node. Agreed. Yeah. So if you have that graph that is connected, and you look at just the instruction set, that should be enough to tell you what operation, what attack is actually happening. Okay. Yeah. I mean, that makes sense to me. And I think for VAD, in the sequence embeddings, uh, things I did was what you're talking about. So I stripped off all the operands and all the, like, the registers and everything, and I just used the sequences as the memory or a- any, um, instruction that was being used, and that was the sequence embeddings I had. Okay. So if you have a feature or a... Let's say the sequence, let's call the sequence a feature, but it's-- I mean, if you're going to use neural networks or something, it could be a sequence of features itself. But okay, let's say it's a feature. So, um, how are you encoding each operation? Operation as in, like, an, an, an instruction? Yeah. So a- again, it's just, uh, I make an array of all the, uh, instructions in that sequence, and then I vectorize it to input it into the, the model. But it should be numerical values if you're using neural networks. Mm. Yep. So yeah, all, all of these- So how are you obtaining-- I mean, you have to go from string representation to numerical representation, and, uh, those numerical representations should be unique per, uh, instruction or per operation. Yeah, I think I just use, uh, some-- I, I, from-- I think if I remember correctly, I used an encoder just to, like, which converts these strings into integer representation. I think that's what I... Um, let me, uh, I should have the-- I can try and find the seq-- the feature list. [typing] No idea why my screen's gone dark suddenly. [typing] Um, we can leave the details later. I mean- Yeah ... the things Paul said to look at, you can look at those first. Um, what I would encourage you to do is plot at least, uh, one graph for each misclassified type. Agreed. So that we can see whether or not the graphs are actually showing specifications or show differences. Agreed. Okay. And then from there, we can see, uh, how to encode it and so on, if needed. Okay. So one thing you can-- So I can give you one suggestion, which I think we-- I mean, we had the chat internally, so this is like-- it's more like dev approach, but I think it's really good. So with Alexi, we said, like, one thing you can do-... like when you start, let's say, if you say: Today, I'm gonna work on this. Just set up some clear objectives at the beginning of the day, and think about how you're gonna work to achieve them. And then at the end of the day, just take stock and see to some extent, to what extent you were able to do it. Because I think otherwise, the risk can be that you get-- you pull yourself in all sorts of directions, and then, you know, you will just end up on some weird rabbit hole, which is probably a detour from your initial plan. And then if you-- even if you like, you had a plan and you have some steps, and you get stuck in one step, just like right on Slack, I mean, we're pretty much there all the time. Tag us, so then, you know, at least we get a notification. Mm-hmm. Yeah. That would be my advice to you. Okay, that sounds good. So I'll look into GNNs and how, how-- like the different types of GNNs, and then I look into the last, uh, the classification layer, and I'll- Really start, start with what I was saying. Okay. See that you, you know, your execution graphs actually make sense and they're connected, 'cause otherwise, the GNN, even if you use a GNN to do anything or any sort of encoding, if the input representation is broken, they will not learn anything meaningful. Mm-hmm. Okay. Yeah. Sounds good. So I'll start with, uh, the, uh- On the model, yeah ... execution graphs, then I'll-- then I can go and look at the feature importance as well for the- Yeah ... random forest, and then I'll do the other- Yeah ... two things. Yeah, yeah. Okay, that sounds good to me. Okay. Mm-hmm. So I'm not gonna give you any deadline. Just see how it goes and write, and then we can just, uh, hoc decide on a new time to meet. Yep. Okay. Sounds good- Yeah. Ritwik? Yes. Enjoy the weekend when it comes, and- Uh, there's a snowstorm that's, uh, been predicted here- Oh, yes ... saying the worst snowstorm of the decade or something. What? [chuckles] Yeah. Did you, did you get supplies? That's typically the first thing- I ordered them, like, this morning, so hopefully. You and half of Pittsburgh. [laughing] Okay. All right. Well, stay safe. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. You have a nice day as well.
